lla noscamus nr rreum narsis.

king of Scotland, the year aster his fathcr's deoease, not as
Buchanau relates, when he had arrived, (for hc had not lest
Norway) nor because he could not hope for assistance from home
before the spring, (which is equally untme) butas Ι understand
it, following the example of Claudius Lyschander; for being
unacquainted with military affairs, he was unwilling to contend
for possession of islands so remote, and from which there was
little gain, with the danger of heary expense and an increase ol
burden to his own subjects, especially as Manu, if Buchanan faith-
fully narrates, had accepted conditione from the Scots, (for he
writes, that Alexander king of Scotland having sent ships round,
recovered the Isle of Mann, situated almost midway between
Sootland and Ireland, upon these terms, that the prince ol the
island should send ten long ships to the king, as osten as ncces·

sity required; and who on the other hand, would defend him ἵ

Regem Scotice, anno quo pater excesserat proximo misit, non
quod, et Buchananus scribit, cum advenisset, (nonenim Norregia
excessit) res magis quam ratus erat desperatas, conspicatus esset,
nec (quod pariter fictum) quod auxilia domo ante vernum tempus

nou sperasset, (cum domi semper maneret) scd quod facilius, ,

Claudio Lycchaadro memorante, in suh θνοπῐαπᾱὶιῖ metrica, credo,
quod rei militaris minus gnarus fuerit, neo de instabili possessione

insularum, tam remotarum, unde parum lucri, tantarum impen- ἵ

sarum periculo, cum ingenti civium suorum onere certare volucrit, ,
Mannit praesertim, si Buchanano fides, a Sectis in deditionem ¹

accepta (scribit enim Alexandrum Scotiae Regem navibus circum· γ
missis Manniam insulam inter Scotiam et Hiberniam, medio fere ³
cursu sitam recuperasse, ea lege, ut ursulae regulus, quoties opus ἵ

 

